what's up everyone today we're learning
five more real british accents that you
need to know
[Music]
in case you missed it we made this
lesson not so long ago which i highly
recommend you watch if you haven't seen
it
and i'll link it down in the description
box below to make it easy for you to
find
due to that lesson's popularity and the
many requests we've had
today you're going to be learning the
yorkshire accent the queen's english
the cockney accent a scouse accent which
is from liverpool
and also a scottish one so first of all
we're going to travel
to south yorkshire and in fact we're
going to doncaster
or as they would say doncaster because
they don't pronounce this
long r sound like i do and we're going
to be taking a look at the accent of
louis tomlinson let's take a look at
this clip and then we'll talk about some
more features of the accent
when i did an interview with band yeah i
knew that
it was kind of my role to once it was
getting a bit serious i'll just throw in
a joke you know
whereas now you have to then think about
everything when you're on your own
because if i just sit here cracking
jokes you'll be like is this guy not
taking it seriously you know so you
gotta
you gotta it's like starting again kind
of really ah so the first
interesting thing to note here is the
way that we pronounce his name
because it could be pronounced in two
different ways some people might say
lewis
and some people might say louis and
that's how he pronounces his
by the way in case you're new here we
help you to learn
fast english without getting lost
without using the jokes and without
subtitles
just like jay who says that it's great
waking up to our lessons
so don't forget to hit that subscribe
button and the bell down below
so that you don't miss any of our new
lessons
there are some very distinctive parts to
this south yorkshire accent which we'll
hear in a moment
with one of louise interviews however
one thing in particular is the way that
they connect some words
so they have quite a precise connected
speech in yorkshire
where they link some words together for
example
instead of saying i'm going to the shop
they'll say
i'm going to shop and you'll hear louis
here as well say
something about when he was with the
band he doesn't say
with the band he says wit band even this
for example an interview
when i did an interview with band when i
did an interview with fans
so this is quite an interesting part of
their accent
so in this interview we hear the
reduction of the
th sound so instead of saying everything
or throw louis actually says everything
and fro so once it was getting a bit
serious i'll just throw in a joke you
know
whereas now you have to then think about
everything when you're on your own
you have to then think about everything
when you're on your own
we also noticed the reduction of the h
here which
can be found in many british accents so
instead of saying
he he might say ee and instead of saying
who he says ooh because if i just sit
here cracking jokes
this guy not taking it seriously you
know so you gotta you gotta it's like
starting again kind of really oh
before i was in one direction i used to
say i'll never have one tattoo and i'll
never smoke one cigarette
not changed my first tattoo that gave me
the bug we
maybe four out of five if one direction
have got them and we just did little
crosses on each other's ankles just a
small cross on each of his ankles and
that kind of gave me the bug really and
i got a few more
in this interview we have further
examples of the reduction of the
h and we also have the glottal t so the
glottal t
is when you don't hear the t in words
but instead the flow of air is stopped
and then released
so for example instead of saying butter
some people might say
butter so there is a sound there but you
don't hear the t
before i was in one direction i used to
say i'll never have one tattoo and i'll
never smoke one cigarette
we also hear that shorter uh sound here
with the u so instead of saying bug
louis says boog and this is very typical
of northern accents my first tattoo that
gave me the borg we
you may remember this from the lesson
that we made on harry styles accent so
if you haven't watched that yet i highly
recommend you do and you can click up
here or down in the description box
below to watch it later
one direction we've got them and we just
did little crosses on each other's
ankles
now the way he says this phrase is very
interesting
so he doesn't say have got them so we
have a reduction of the
h sound here we have a glottal t
and we also have a reduction of the th
sound
in them so instead of saying have got
them
luffy says one direction you've got them
and we just did little crosses on each
other's ankles
in this clip we again have the reduction
of the h
that short uh sound and the reduction of
the th
sound however we also hear him use
me instead of my i'm lucky with where i
grew up
in doncaster we don't like we wear our
art on our sleeves really you know what
i mean so it comes naturally to me
really to kind of just
be open about the way i feel and stuff
like that we still live in a society
where it's still seen as a bit of a
taboo or there's a stigma around
men talking about vulnerability and that
kind of thing
what's that journey been like for you
with that whole stereotype have you ever
felt that
level of stereotype i mean like i'm
aware of it
but how like how i operate personally
i've always kind of
owned it really um you know i think my
mum did a good job of
bringing me up and taught me good values
and stuff so instead of saying i think
my mum did a good job he says i think my
mum
did a good job you know i think my mum
did a good job of
bringing me up and again this is very
typical of northern english accents
we also hear a short e sound at the end
of words that end with
why so instead of saying personally he
says
personally i've always kind of owned it
really
so this is very common of northern
accents in
england with words that end in y such as
really
personally and probably if you'd like to
improve your understanding of fast
speaking natives then i highly recommend
our fluent with friends course in this
48 week course you'll learn with the
first two seasons of friends
you'll receive pdf power lessons every
week
vocabulary memorization software access
to our fluency circle global community
and so much more and the best part is
you can try
right now absolutely free with our
three-part masterclass
all you have to do is click up here or
down in the description box below to
learn more and sign up now
so now we're going to travel a bit
further south
to london where the queen lives in
buckingham palace and we're going to
take a little look at
how the queen speaks so the queen has
kind of her own style of rp
which is received pronunciation and this
type of accent is not spoken by
a large percentage of the population
it's actually a very small percentage
and it's synonymous with class so it's
usually the
upper classes that would speak this way
and also the bbc it's known as the bbc
english you see it's it's much smaller
isn't it
i mean it was it was the same height
you know it would be it would have been
up to about there
when my father wore it i mean it was
huge then
yes very unwieldy
it's difficult to always remember that
diamonds are stones so they're very
heavy
yes fortunately my father and i have
about the same sort of shaped head
but once you put it on it stays i mean
it just remains
itself you have to keep your head very
still yes
and you can't look down to read the
speech you have to take the speech
up because if you did your neck would
break
would it fall off
so there are some disadvantages to
crayons but but otherwise
they're quite important things so you'll
notice that when the queen speaks her
jaw is very stiff so there's not a lot
of movement around her mouth
and her lips also stay quite close
together
one of the best ways to understand
natives is by learning connected speech
and many people
are quite surprised to hear that even
the queen
sometimes speaks with connected speech
so you can hear here the way that she
says
isn't it is quite different and she
links those two words together
to make it more natural as she speaks
you see it's much smaller isn't it we
also have some linking here where she
says
war it so that final sound that r
sound links to it and it sounds like
wore it
wore it it was the same height
you know it would be it would have been
up to about there
when my father wore it now one very
distinctive sound that the royal family
has
is the way they say off the way they say
the
o sound so i say it like this off
or often however they say it with an
uh sound so they will say oof or
orphan because if you did your neck
would break would it fall off
it's very interesting the way that the
queen says yes as well
and there's this really funny clip where
olivia common who plays the queen
in the series the crown actually teaches
someone
how to say yes as the royal family and
as the queen
the royals have a whole other level of
um
uh speaking how would so for example can
i teach you how to say
yes yes if you say
e-a-r-s yours
that's yes ew
i'm sorry say it is the queen please it
is
yes if you'd like to learn english with
queen elizabeth ii
and more about her pronunciation then i
highly recommend you check out this
lesson we made by clicking up here
or down in the description box below
so now we're staying in london but we're
going towards the
east of london to learn more about the
cockney accent with david beckham
so david beckham was born and grew up in
an area of east london called
leytonstone
so he does have quite a cockney accent
you know he was a father figure
for me for so many years you know he
brought me to the club that i loved
as a kid i played for the club i was
successful at the club with
you know a number of other of the young
kids as well that we grew up with
so he gave me everything in my career
that i needed and so
you know he'll always be the man that i
always look up to because he gave me the
dream of playing for man united so who
kind of held out the olive branch who
kind of went oh look
there was no olive branch it was just
you know we just bumped into each other
at certain occasions after i'd left
manchester united and
um you know there was things that upset
me and i'm obviously i'm sure
and well there definitely was things
that upset him
but like i said you know i have so much
respect for him as a manager as a man
and
you know like i said he gave me a dream
in particular
we see the reduction of the th sound
again
like we did in louis tomlinson's accent
and it sounds more like a f
sound i played for the club i was
successful at the club with
you know a number of other um of the
young kids as well that we grew up with
so in words such as father with
and everything we hear david beckham
saying it with more of a f
or a v sound we can also hear again the
reduction of the h
and the glottal t which is very typical
of the cockney accent
you know we just bumped into each other
at certain occasions after i'd left
manchester united and
another sound that you'll hear with the
cockney accent
is that at the end of words when there's
an ing
sometimes it changes to a cur sound so
instead of saying
everything here david says everything
so he gave me everything in my career
that i needed and so
as we've spoken about this before
natives make mistakes too and this is a
very common one
so instead of saying were he says was
in these sentences um you know there was
things that upset me and i'm
obviously i'm sure and well there
definitely was things that upset him
now the very talented singer adele is
also known for her very strong cockney
accent
so have a watch and see if there are any
features of the cockney accent you can
hear in hers as well
thank you so much to come back after so
long
away and be so warmly received is really
lovely thank you so much
and to all the other girls that are
nominated thank you for letting me be in
your company you're all incredible
you're all amazing and it's a privilege
to be alongside you
i'd like to take a quick second just to
thank my management and my record label
for embracing the fact that i'm a woman
and being encouraged by it
thank you very much
[Applause]
so now we're going to travel all the way
up north to scotland and in particular
perth where the famous actor ewan
mcgregor is from
now the scottish accent is a rhotic one
meaning that the r sound is pronounced
in most words
i mean do you dress up for halloween or
when you're an actor is that not
something no we really dress you're
really dressed i mean we really cause
that's what we do
right and we do it uh we do i've done it
over the years
many very successful costumes are you
going to have one this year
this year i'm not going to be here i've
got to go away but i but i
i do enjoy it and i've been doing it
since you know in scotland we used to do
it and
when we were kids it was so different
there though it wasn't trick-or-treating
we called it
geysing and isaac yeah and you just you
dressed up and you went out
and it didn't have to as i recall i mean
it's difficult to remember when you're
five or six or something
it didn't have to be all bloody and
horrory right it was just you just
dressed up as someone
like disguising it's guys maybe where it
came well and you had to do a thing
you'd have to
i suppose like trick-or-treating
although we didn't know that term then
you had to do a little song or a dance
or not dance maybe but a song
or a poem or tell a limerick or
something and then the person would give
you a
sweetie we called it a candy it it so it
was like a talent show in a way
to earn it you had to earn it wow with
your
creative talent so you might notice that
it sounds a little bit more like the way
they pronounce the r sound in american
english as opposed to british english
the o sound as well is quite different
in his accent
it's elongated and it's more at the
front of the mouth
so instead of saying i know it has more
of an elongated sound and is at the
front of the mouth
i suppose like trick-or-treating
although we didn't know that term then
there's also some connected speech here
in the way that he says
suppose he shortens it to spose
so instead of saying i suppose he says i
suppose
i suppose like trick-or-treating
although we didn't know that term then
i suppose like trick-or-treating now
euro mcgregor is a very famous hollywood
actor and he's made
very many movies there so his accent has
been influenced a little bit by this
and you'll notice that he does tend to
use the tap tea
quite a lot so although he does also
pronounce his tease you'll also hear
his tongue hit the roof of his mouth
there with the american tea
so now we're going to travel down just a
little bit to liverpool
and liverpool has such a distinctive
accent it's actually only around 30
miles from
manchester but the two accents are very
different
so we are going to be taking an
interview
with stephen graham who is a famous
hollywood actor
and you might actually not even realize
that he's from liverpool because he
often plays
characters that are from america and his
american accent
is incredible you can do uh just about
every accent i've heard you do most
accidents you're from kirby aren't you
oh yeah i'm from kirby which is just
outside of liverpool yeah
uh but do you find it easier to slip
into all the other ones i i do actually
if i'm honest i'm
just i must just be very lucky i've got
a good ear for it but what i try to do
is either
be in that area for a little bit or i'll
watch programs from where
you know where that area is set i'll
watch programs where where that's meant
to be from so yeah i've got a good ear
for it really
so we call this accent the scouse accent
which comes
actually from a dish a type of stew that
was eaten by sailors down at the docks
so their accent is also heavily
influenced by the
irish because it's very close by and
during the 19th and 20th centuries
there were many irish settlers so this
can be
one of the most difficult accents to
understand
even for people from other parts of the
uk
because there's a lot of connected
speech involved
working with pacino i mean that for an
actor i guess he's about as good as it
gets as well
of course yeah yeah um and it was a
little
i'd kind of had an idea in our house
when i was reading through and
so i started messing about we shot it
three times and then on the third take
he's eating ice cream really slowly
and he's got this big scene he owes me
two million quid do you know what i mean
i've known him for a while and he's he's
not giving me money we should have
played this is in the film not in real
life
playing real life characters the
characters yeah
he's jimmy hoffman he owes me two
million two million dollars
so he's eating his ice cream and all
that and everything and on the third car
i thought right i'm gonna do it now and
i'd already planned this
but i told the cameraman and i told a
props fella and he's eating it and he
just puts his ice cream down he's
looking at me
and i just went and i threw the bowl
right across the room and he went
oh and then we carried on a little bit
and marty went cut and he went did you
see that
that kid fighting me
the t's are quite distinctive especially
at the end of words and they just link
to the next words
so they do speak quite fast and it can
be quite difficult to decipher what
someone is saying
you'll also hear the rolling of the r
especially at the end of words and then
again that links to the next one
so instead of saying our house here he
says
i'd kind of had an idea in our house
when i was reading through so if you've
never heard this before
you might actually not even understand
what words he is saying at all
we also have the reduction of the h
again so
as you can tell this is typical of many
accents around the uk
and when he says right across here that
t
at the end rolls into the next one so
just have a little listen again to how
this sounds
i just went and i threw the ball right
across the room and he went
oh you might also notice that they have
a very distinctive k
sound so it's very much at the back of
the throat
and it's quite coarse so when saying
words like
character and back it's more
you have that coarse sound so bach
of course i'm no expert and i'm not
great at doing different accents so
let's hear it again from stephen graham
i realize the characters
another aspect of the scouse accent is
that that g
is dropped at the end of certain words
so of the accents that you've learned
today which one do you like the most
and are there any other british accents
that you would like to be featured
let me know down in the comments below
and don't forget that i've linked a lot
of lessons down in the description box
below that you can check out next which
i highly recommend
you watch but now it's time to go beyond
the classroom and live your english
ah yeah so we don't have time to look at
all of them
there are very very many but we're going
to start off by taking a look
at a few in today's lesson there's got
to be a difference between
english guys and american guys right um
yeah there's definitely one or two
differences that i've i've noticed
um english guys are like very well put
together and they dress really well and
they're like very well mannered